elsewhere the UN Security Council is set
to vote in a few hours on a resolution
demanding a ceasefire in the war between
Israel and Hamas which is labeled as a
terrorist organization in many countries
the Algeria sponsored plan representing
several Arab Nations calls for an
immediate humanitarian ceasefire as well
as the release of all hostages the US
has said that it will veto that
resolution and has instead proposed its
own it calls for a temporary ceasefire
linked to the release of hostages it is
yet unclear if the US resolution will be
put to a vote as
well for more contacts let's bring in DW
correspondent Aman SF who has the view
right now from Jerusalem so I mean why
two resolutions what's what's different
between
them well there's actually a lot less
difference than you might think it
essentially boils down to the wording on
the time frame for the ceasefire so
whereas the Algerian ceasefire
resolution calls for an immediate
ceasefire uh the UN resolution calls for
a ceasefire and the release of hostages
when practicable both call for the
release of hostages of course but that
is because the US is worried that the
ongoing negotiations between Israel and
Hamas for a ceasefire deal that would uh
be uh linked to the release of Israeli
hostages held by Hamas they're worried
that that would fall apart uh if a
resolution passed that called for an
immediate uh ceasefire now those talks
have been going on for a couple of weeks
led by the US and the United Arab
Emirates and they have basically Fallen
apart after Israel withdrew saying that
uh the Hamas demands were delusional so
the US really wants to keep up pressure
on both sides to get a ceasefire deal um
what's interesting here though is that
the wording in the uh this UN resolution
which could be proposed uh after the
Algerian resolution is vetoed uh the
wording there is much stronger than
we've seen in past us resolutions which
has often been very watered down this is
the first uh resolution the US proposed
that is actually using the word
ceasefire so that shows you how far the
Biden Administration has come in being
critical of Israel's war on Gaza and Amy
and the uan the US has been very vocal
in its criticism of Israel's planned
operations in Rafa has Israel taken on
on board that
criticism publicly uh they've been very
defiant and there is no sign that they
actually uh questioning whether or not
they should go ahead with this ground
assault in Rafa uh the delay might after
the announcement of the ground assault
and rafle there's been quite a bit of
delay and no uh time frame given by
Israeli military yet that might suggest
that they are taking into account some
things that their closest allies are
saying about how this would be a
disaster for security in the region and
a humanitarian disaster but they still
haven't put forward any plan uh to save
the lives of civilians there's 1.3
million and gazin uh who are up against
the Egyptian border there in Rafa it's
the last uh City in Gaza Strip that
still has functioning infrastructure so
it's very unclear where people are
supposed to go but Israel has said that
if uh they don't see the release of all
Israeli hostages by March 10th that's
the beginning of Ramadan then they will
go ahead with this ground assault talk
with us about the pressure that the
Israeli government is under to ensure
the safe release of the remaining
hostages
there are many families in Israel who go
out once a week at least uh in Tel Aviv
Jerusalem and other places demanding the
uh that the government the Netanyahu
government does a lot more to release
these hostages don't forget that a
hostage deal basically is the only way
to release Mass hostages uh through
nonviolent means essentially the last
deal they saw about a 100 hostages
released by Hamas coming home to their
families and a lot of the families that
still have people uh who are being held
by Hamas in Gaza they want to see their
relatives freed Israel has basically uh
stalled on any talks to release hostages
um and have asked they they basically
want to use military means and that
angers a lot of families in Israel Aman
essf in Jerusalem thank
you